---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "ad_user Data Source - terraform-provider-ad"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Get the details of an Active Directory user object.
---

# ad_user (Data Source)

Get the details of an Active Directory user object.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "ad_user" "u" {
    user_id = "DC3E5929-71C0-4232-9C32-9C7AFAABF0BB"
}

output "username" {
    value = data.ad_user.u.sam_account_name
}

output "country" {
    value = data.ad_user.u.country
}

output "trusted_for_delegation" {
    value = data.ad_user.u.trusted_for_delegation
}

data "ad_user" "u2" {
    user_id = "CN=Test User,OU=Users,DC=contoso,DC=com"
}

output "testuser_guid" {
    value = data.ad_user.u2.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `user_id` (String) The user's identifier. It can be the group's GUID, SID, Distinguished Name, or SAM Account Name.

### Optional

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

### Read-Only

- `city` (String) City assigned to user object.
- `company` (String) Company assigned to user object.
- `country` (String) Country assigned to user object.
- `department` (String) Department assigned to user object.
- `description` (String) Description of the user object.
- `display_name` (String) The display name of the user object.
- `division` (String) Division assigned to user object.
- `email_address` (String) Email address assigned to user object.
- `employee_id` (String) Employee ID assigned to user object.
- `employee_number` (String) Employee Number assigned to user object.
- `fax` (String) Fax number assigned to user object.
- `given_name` (String) Given name of the user object.
- `home_directory` (String) Home directory of the user object.
- `home_drive` (String) Home drive of the user object.
- `home_page` (String) Home page of the user object.
- `home_phone` (String) Home phone of the user object.
- `initials` (String) Initials of the user object.
- `mobile_phone` (String) Mobile phone of the user object.
- `office` (String) Office assigned to user object.
- `office_phone` (String) Office phone of the user object.
- `organization` (String) Organization assigned to user object.
- `other_name` (String) Extra name of the user object.
- `po_box` (String) Post office assigned to user object.
- `postal_code` (String) Postal code of the user object.
- `principal_name` (String) The principal name of the user object.
- `sam_account_name` (String) The SAM account name of the user object.
- `sid` (String) The SID of the user object.
- `smart_card_logon_required` (Boolean) Smart card required to logon or not
- `state` (String) State of the user object.
- `street_address` (String) Address of the user object.
- `surname` (String) Surname of the user object.
- `title` (String) Title of the user object
- `trusted_for_delegation` (Boolean) Check if user is trusted for delegation


