---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "ad_user Resource - terraform-provider-ad"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  ad_user manages User objects in an Active Directory tree.
---

# ad_user (Resource)

`ad_user` manages User objects in an Active Directory tree.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# basic example
variable principal_name { default = "testuser" }
variable samaccountname { default = "testuser" }

resource "ad_user" "u" {
  principal_name    = var.principal_name
  sam_account_name  = var.samaccountname
  display_name      = "Terraform Test User"
  custom_attributes = jsonencode({
    "carLicense": ["This is", "a multi-value", "attribute"],
    "comment": "and this is a single value attribute"
  })
}


# all user attributes
variable principal_name2 { default = "testuser2" }
variable samaccountname2 { default = "testuser2" }
variable container      { default = "CN=Users,DC=contoso,DC=com" }

resource "ad_user" "u2" {
  principal_name            = var.principal_name2
  sam_account_name          = var.samaccountname2
  display_name              = "Terraform Test User"
  container                 = var.container
  initial_password          = "Password"
  city                      = "City"
  company                   = "Company"
  country                   = "us"
  department                = "Department"
  description               = "Description"
  division                  = "Division"
  email_address             = "some@email.com"
  employee_id               = "id"
  employee_number           = "number"
  fax                       = "Fax"
  given_name                = "GivenName"
  home_directory            = "HomeDirectory"
  home_drive                = "HomeDrive"
  home_phone                = "HomePhone"
  home_page                 = "HomePage"
  initials                  = "Initia"
  mobile_phone              = "MobilePhone"
  office                    = "Office"
  office_phone              = "OfficePhone"
  organization              = "Organization"
  other_name                = "OtherName"
  po_box                    = "POBox"
  postal_code               = "PostalCode"
  state                     = "State"
  street_address            = "StreetAddress"
  surname                   = "Surname"
  title                     = "Title"
  smart_card_logon_required = false
  trusted_for_delegation    = true
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- **display_name** (String) The Display Name of an Active Directory user.
- **principal_name** (String) The Principal Name of an Active Directory user.
- **sam_account_name** (String) The pre-win2k user logon name.

### Optional

- **cannot_change_password** (Boolean) If set to true, the user will not be allowed to change their password.
- **city** (String) Specifies the user's town or city. This parameter sets the City property of a user object.
- **company** (String) Specifies the user's company. This parameter sets the Company property of a user object.
- **container** (String) A DN of the container object that will be holding the user.
- **country** (String) Specifies the country by setting the country code (refer to ISO 3166)
- **custom_attributes** (String) JSON encoded map that represents key/value pairs for custom attributes. Please note that `terraform import` will not import these attributes.
- **department** (String) Specifies the user's department. This parameter sets the Department property of a user object.
- **description** (String) Specifies a description of the object. This parameter sets the value of the Description property for the user object.
- **division** (String) Specifies the user's division. This parameter sets the Division property of a user object.
- **email_address** (String) Specifies the user's e-mail address. This parameter sets the EmailAddress property of a user object.
- **employee_id** (String) Specifies the user's employee ID. This parameter sets the EmployeeID property of a user object.
- **employee_number** (String) Specifies the user's employee number. This parameter sets the EmployeeNumber property of a user object.
- **enabled** (Boolean) If set to false, the user will be disabled.
- **fax** (String) Specifies the user's fax phone number. This parameter sets the Fax property of a user object.
- **given_name** (String) Specifies the user's given name. This parameter sets the GivenName property of a user object.
- **home_directory** (String) Specifies a user's home directory. This parameter sets the HomeDirectory property of a user object.
- **home_drive** (String) Specifies a drive that is associated with the UNC path defined by the HomeDirectory property. The drive letter is specified as <DriveLetter>: where <DriveLetter> indicates the letter of the drive to associate. The <DriveLetter> must be a single, uppercase letter and the colon is required. This parameter sets the HomeDrive property of the user object.
- **home_page** (String) Specifies the URL of the home page of the object. This parameter sets the homePage property of a user object.
- **home_phone** (String) Specifies the user's home telephone number. This parameter sets the HomePhone property of a user object.
- **id** (String) The ID of this resource.
- **initial_password** (String) The user's initial password. This will be set on creation but will *not* be enforced in subsequent plans.
- **initials** (String) Specifies the initials that represent part of a user's name. Maximum 6 char.
- **mobile_phone** (String) Specifies the user's mobile phone number. This parameter sets the MobilePhone property of a user object.
- **office** (String) Specifies the location of the user's office or place of business. This parameter sets the Office property of a user object.
- **office_phone** (String) Specifies the user's office telephone number. This parameter sets the OfficePhone property of a user object.
- **organization** (String) Specifies the user's organization. This parameter sets the Organization property of a user object.
- **other_name** (String) Specifies a name in addition to a user's given name and surname, such as the user's middle name.
- **password_never_expires** (Boolean) If set to true, the password for this user will not expire.
- **po_box** (String) Specifies the user's post office box number. This parameter sets the POBox property of a user object.
- **postal_code** (String) Specifies the user's postal code or zip code. This parameter sets the PostalCode property of a user object.
- **smart_card_logon_required** (Boolean) If set to true, a smart card is required to logon. This parameter sets the SmartCardLoginRequired property for a user object.
- **state** (String) Specifies the user's or Organizational Unit's state or province. This parameter sets the State property of a user object.
- **street_address** (String) Specifies the user's street address. This parameter sets the StreetAddress property of a user object.
- **surname** (String) Specifies the user's last name or surname. This parameter sets the Surname property of a user object.
- **title** (String) Specifies the user's title. This parameter sets the Title property of a user object
- **trusted_for_delegation** (Boolean) If set to true, the user account is trusted for Kerberos delegation. A service that runs under an account that is trusted for Kerberos delegation can assume the identity of a client requesting the service. This parameter sets the TrustedForDelegation property of an account object.

### Read-Only

- **sid** (String) The SID of the user object.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
$ terraform import ad_user 9CB8219C-31FF-4A85-A7A3-9BCBB6A41D02
```
